Overview
Oculus produces virtual reality headsets, including the Oculus Rift and Oculus Quest devices. If you use a Facebook account (not an Oculus account) to access Oculus products, please visit the Oculus for Facebook privacy evaluation which has different policies and privacy practices. The terms of Oculus say there are many ways a user can express themselves and communicate with friends, family, and others – for example, sharing photos, creating or participating in events or multiplayer experiences, or adding content to a virtual environment.

The terms do not say whether Oculus can sell a user's data to third parties, but the terms do say Oculus may send users third-party marketing messages and track users for targeted advertising purposes. For example, the terms say third parties may collect information about a user's use of Oculus, including through the use of cookies, device IDs, local storage, pixels and other technologies, and this information may be collected over time and combined with information collected on other third-party websites and online services. The terms also say Oculus uses reasonable security practices and cookies to help keep a user's account, their data and the Oculus services safe and secure. The terms say that users can access, modify, and delete their personal information at any time, but children under 13 years of age are not allowed to use Oculus. Lastly, the terms do not discuss collection of student data or use by students in K-12 classrooms.

Oculus can be accessed through its website, and is available for download at the iOS App Store, and the Google Play Store. The Privacy Policy and Terms of Use used for this evaluation can be found on Oculus’ website, iOS App Store, and the Google Play Store. This evaluation only considers policies that have been made publicly available prior to an individual using the application or service.

Additionally, other policies used for this evaluation include:

Privacy FAQ
Oculus Store Terms
Oculus Cookie Policy
Conduct in VR Policy
Oculus Platform Abuse Policy
Safety
The terms of Oculus say there are many ways a user can express themselves and communicate with friends, family, and others – for example, sharing photos, creating or participating in events or multiplayer experiences, or adding content to a virtual environment. The terms also say users should consider who they choose to share with, because people who are able to see a user's activity, content, or information on Oculus may choose to share it with others on and off the Oculus services. For example, when a user interacts with others in a multiplayer game, another player could choose to livestream that experience – including what that user is doing in the game – to Facebook. In addition, information a user posts to public areas of Oculus, such as a forum, blog, or other community tool, will also be visible to people on and off Oculus products. For example, when a user shares a photo or other content in a shared or public virtual space, other people who visit the space may be able to see it.

Privacy
The terms say when a user registers to use Oculus, the service may collect information such as a user's name, email address, phone number, and location information. In addition, Oculus may share recordings and transcripts of a user's voice interactions with third parties and service providers who assist Oculus in improving, troubleshooting, and training speech recognition systems.

In addition, the terms say biometric information may be collected about a user's environment, physical movements, and dimensions when they use an Oculus device. For example, when a user sets up the Oculus Guardian System to alert them when they approach a boundary, the service receives information about the play area that the user have defined. Also, when a user enables the hand tracking feature, the service also collects technical information like the user's estimated hand size and hand movement data to enable this feature. Also information about a user's physical interactions with Oculus is collected, like information about the people, games, content, apps, features, or other experiences a user interacts with, including information collected from content provided by third-party partners.

The terms do not say whether Oculus can sell a user's data to third parties, but the terms do say Oculus may send users third-party marketing messages and track users. For example, the terms say third parties may collect information about a user's use of Oculus, including through the use of cookies, device IDs, local storage, pixels and other technologies, and this information may be collected over time and combined with information collected on different websites and online services for targeted advertising purposes. Lastly, the terms also say Oculus can share information with Facebook to conduct and support research and innovation to further the state of the art or academic understanding of XR technology.

Security
The terms say Oculus uses reasonable security practices and cookies to help keep a user's account, their data and the Oculus services safe and secure. Oculus uses cookies to identify and impose additional security measures when someone may be attempting to access an Oculus account without authorization, for instance, by rapidly guessing different passwords. The terms say Oculus also uses cookies to store information that allows the service to recover a user's account in the event that they forget their password or to require additional authentication if a user's account has been hacked. The terms say Oculus uses cookies to fight spam and phishing attacks by enabling the service to identify computers engaging in suspicious activity. However, the terms do not say whether Oculus uses reasonable security practices such as encryption, but the terms do say notice is provided to users in the event of a data breach.

Compliance
The terms say that users can control their privacy settings through the services. In addition, the terms say that users can access, modify, and delete their personal information at any time through their organization, but children under 13 years of age are not allowed to use Oculus. However, teens between the ages of 13 and 18 may user the services but only with parental consent. Lastly, the terms do not discuss collection of student data or use by students in K-12 classrooms.
